---
title: Barnaby
date: 2011-02-17
category: fiction
---

Barnaby loves growing roses.

He has red roses. Many different kinds of red. Grainy red like a
desirable apple. Light red like blushing cheeks. Bright red like a
romantic sunset. Dark red like a deep passionate love. His most
beautiful roses are pure red, like drops of blood from a pricked
finger.

Barnaby is looking for the perfect bouquet. His early attempts had
failed. He had not been able to impress anyone. He didn't have a big
enough garden to pick the perfect roses for his perfect bouquet. But
after years of developing his garden and learning about roses, he had
tried again.

At first he tried finding the perfect dozen. Twelve seemed like a
goood number for a perfect bouquet. So he took the twelve most
beautiful roses in his garden and gently put them together. But
bunched together, they looked just like any other bouquet. He tried
different roses. He tried with ferns. He tried larger roses. He tried
different colors. But he did not find the perfect bouquet. He sold his
creations to his customers.

So he tried larger bouquets. And as he tried different bouquets, he
kept taking care of the roses in his garden. He got better at it. His
roses became more beautiful. He thought the largest bouquet in the
world might be the most beautiful. So he took his three hundred most
beautiful roses. He tied them together with his favourite ribbon in a
basket he made for the occasion. But each rose, no matter how
beautiful, would fade among its peers, and lost all it's glamour. The
bouquet won many contests, but it was not the perfect bouquet.

So he tried smaller bouquets. Years of attention and care had payed
out. Almost every rose that he grew was perfect. Three of them tied
together in a ribbon could mend or break a heart. But Barnaby had not
yet found the perfect bouquet. Just a single one of his roses was
extremely precious, but a single rose does not constitute a bouquet.

Barnaby realised that the perfect bouquet could have any amount of
roses. The secret to a perfect bouquet lied elsewhere. He would keep
working until he found the secret.

Barnaby now continues to work for his perfect Bouquet, but no one
knows what he has tried. He does not admit anyone into his garden
anymore. He does not see anyone except the occasional florist. Most
florists have stopped coming. The rumor says that some of his roses
dont look like roses anymore. Those who see him say that his hands are
scarred and bandaged and that his eyes look empty.

Barnaby must realise that he will never grow the perfect bouquet alone
in his garden. He first has to find someone to give it to.